At this point, most of us are quite familiar with re-targeting,
referred to as re-marketing when it's on the Google stack.
With re-marketing, publishers can deliver ads based on previously visited websites.
Google Analytics allows us to define these re-marketing audiences that we can then
use as advertisers on other sites that are serving as the publishers.
We can re-market it to non purchasers.
We can also re-market for cross-selling.
Though re-marketing is sometimes seen as a mechanism to bring visitors back to convert,
we can also use re-marketing to offer
additional information resources and engagement to users who have already converted.
Re-marketing audiences allow us to connect Google Analytics
behavioral data with our advertising efforts.
Audiences are defined pretty much just like custom segments.
We're also going to see why it's better to use users scope
than session scope for most of our re-targeting audiences.
We will be able to use our audiences for AdWords re-marketing, for RSA,
for YouTube re-marketing, for re-marketing through DBM
and also for a targeted testing if we're using optimized 360.
Because Google re-marketing leverages the third-party double-click cookie,
we will want to make sure it to include this fact in our websites privacy policy.
Let's see how to define a re-marketing audience in Google Analytics.
There are two ways to create audiences and GA. We can start with
an existing segment or we can create an audience from scratch.
Let's look at both examples.
If we have our segments panel open,
and we want to create a re-marketing audience from the non converters segment,
we can click "Build audience" but we can get even more granular than that.
Let's define an audience from scratch.
Will go to Admin,
Audience definitions, out answers.
When you're first creating an audience,
Google Analytics does require you to create the all users audience
and verify that you have connected Google Analytics to Google AdWords,
but you're probably not going to use all users for any of you re-marketing.
So, let's define a more specific audience.
Audience Source View will stick with are all website data view for now.
Next step, create new audience definition
and let's say that we are creating an audience on
a lead generation site for visitors who got to the final step into
lead submission process but did not actually submit the lead go to conditions.
How would we designate users who got to the final step in the lead submission process?
We could use the page dimension.
Filters sessions include Page exactly
matches and let's say that the Page Path is lead form,
add filter, filter sessions exclude.
Now, we could either use the page dimension
of the thank you page or if we already have the goal configured,
we could use goal completions.
Lead submitted goal one completions per session equals zero,
and we're going to make an important change.
We're going to change the scope of these filters from sessions to users.
Why is it important to change the scope from sessions to users?
Because if we kept the scope it's sessions and a visitor started
the lead process and got to the lead form on Monday,
but didn't come back and convert till Tuesday and we kept the scope to
sessions that user would still be
included in our re-targeting audience which we wouldn't want to do.
We want the scope to be set to users in three cases so
that even if a user got to
the lead form during one session and convert it in another session,
that user would be excluded from the re-marketing Audience.
We don't want to re-market to people who have already converted,
unless that's the type of re-marketing campaign that you're running.
Click "Apply" You can choose
the membership duration depending on the type of conversion cycle that you have.
For conversion that may take a long time,
we could increase our membership duration,
maximum is 540 days.
Let's say for this lead submission process we're
changing the membership duration to 90 days.
Now, for the look-back days that will be
the period during which the two filters can be applied.
So, Google Analytics will look at seven-day intervals to evaluate
views of the lead form page and whether or not goal one was completed.
We could implement remarketing in AdWords without using Google Analytics Audiences.
So, what's the advantage of using Google Analytics Audiences for AdWords remarketing?
For one thing, AdWords remarketing does require an additional tag,
whereas if we have Google Analytics on our website already,
we usually have all the tagging we need.
Defining your audiences in Google Analytics will provide much greater flexibility.
This is the main benefit.
With Google Analytics, we can define audiences based on any kind of behavior,
original traffic source, or custom dimensions such as
loyalty level or back end lead qualification status.
The specificity we have in defining our remarketing audiences in Google Analytics is
a good reason to go this route instead of
using Google AdWords defined remarketing audiences.